This is Jockel Podcast number 146 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
And I wanted to kind of delve into and slash explain some conversations that I've had lately.
Sure, with a couple of people and actually I think the numbers increase now because now I've had this conversation with a few people.
And I'm feeling like I need to kind of share this idea with kind of with more people, I guess at this point.
It's kind of a discussion that applies to everyone at some level.
Sort of about what you are and about who you are and about where you've been and about where you're going.
So that's a pretty broad topic. I think it suffice it to say.
Yeah.
Now in order to convey this properly, I'm going to try and set up some visuals in your head.
Could you kind of kind of see this, right?
Graphs, whatever charts, all right? Diagrams and I'm going to try and keep them simple but pretty straightforward.
Here we go. We're going to grade things.
We're going to grade things one to ten because that's sort of the standard.
I guess you go ABCDF.
Yeah, but we're not doing that.
We're going one to ten, one being the worst, ten being the best, one being the least, ten being the most, that type of thing.
Okay?
So you have a chart.
Picture in your head at the bottom of the chart is a one.
That's the lowest.
That's the worst at the chart.
This ten.
That's the highest.
That's the most.
Now the first chart that we're going to talk about.
It measures talent.
Now what's different about this chart is this is not just talking about a particular talent.
This is talking about every possible type of talent that you as an individual human being have and it's consolidating that all those different types of talents.
That's a lot of talents into one.
Giant score.
One holistic score.
Ten.
At the top or one at the bottom.
So this is.
This is everything that you are as a person.
How smart you are.
The only the only thing is everything you are as a person that you are given naturally.
Right?
So there's a baseline of how smart you are.
So how intelligent you are.
Now we know you can work.
It's smarter, but we're just talking the baseline.
How.
How charismatic you are as a person.
How well you read people's emotions.
How athletic you are.
And that grades you can grade all different types of athleticism in there.
What strength?
Because some people are naturally strong.
Some people are naturally flexible.
Some people have natural cardiovascular endurance.
Right?
You get a certain level of that naturally.
Of course we know people can work hard.
You can improve some of that.
But we're just talking your natural talent.
Healthy.
That's sort of a talent.
Sort of like some people are born healthier than others.
No doubt about it.
How good looking you are.
You ever seen those little.
Like I don't know if they're psychological experiments,
but they put like the faces and from the babies.
And like the babies pick the the one that looks nicer to them.
It has to do with.
Sameetry.
Sameetry and ratios and stuff like that.
So so that that's a talent thing that you're getting.
And naturally your natural body composition.
Right?
Some people are born a little bit with a little bit more fat on them.
Some people are born with a little bit muscle on them.
Some people are born with.
No skin and bones right?
You get everything.
Yeah.
Again, I know you can work on some of those.
But we're talking about what you got out of the gate from.
Your creator or nature or whatever you think you got it from.
Yeah.
So.
At the top of that chart.
I don't know who's at the top of that chart.
Uh, maybe.
I mean, there's people.
There's there's a bunch of people that would crank towards the top of that chart.
Mm hmm.
So.
Who's up there?
Well, yeah, ultimately hard to tell because you know what.
You know what was given to him or what's working for.
But you know, to look at him, you know,
to just just someone as a whole.
Yeah.
I don't know like the rock character.
The character.
The rock.
The rock character is Maddie.
He's a good athlete.
He's tall.
He's he's got a good acting skill, which, again,
Did you work hard for these things?
We better to we better give the rocks and credit over here from the park.
From all that.
But hey, he's given some natural stuff.
That's a very good one.
Uh, Tom Brady.
Right.
Yes.
He's smart.
He's a good athlete.
He's.
You know, got some leadership skills.
So he's got some.
Some.
Some natural gifts that again.
You know, the hard.
We're not taking that away from him.
But you're born with some stuff.
GSP maybe, right?
Just be really good athlete.
Smart guy.
You know, level headed.
You know, just a he's a very talented guy.
So there you go.
You take that chart.
You look at that chart.
But one to 10.
Where's the where?
There's the rock.
He's like a nine point six.
He's up there.
Yeah.
And then you ask yourself where you on that chart.
And I'm asked quite a few people this and we're still talking naturally.
We're just talking what you got naturally.
Where do you think most people?
Where would you rank yourself?
Naturally.
If I don't know five.
Oh, most people rank themselves.
Most people that have asked to rank themselves a little bit higher than that.
They've ranked themselves six point eight.
Seven point two in that.
They're giving themselves a little bit above average.
Right.
You're going five, huh?
Well, keep in mind.
We just said the rock.
So I'm like, all right.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's true.
You know what we should have done is we should have said one to a hundred.
So you could say the rock is a 96.
That's still be a 50.
Okay.
Can I do it?
Yeah.
All right.
So you give yourself five.
So that's good.
And I'm sure we could break that down about where you got the because some people.
This is important.
Some people can be a 10 or a 9.8.
For their intellect.
But maybe they socially don't have good skills about reading.
They weren't born with that little thing.
Right.
So they can't read people well.
So even though they're really smart, they're not making anything happen.
Because they can't even communicate with people well.
Or they're just they're not healthy.
Right.
They're bad athletes.
Some people the opposite.
We could good athlete.
But they're just not that smart.
Right.
And everything in the city.
You could you could be a 9 athlete.
But you're a.
A very low.
Whatever intellect and that's going to bring you down.
Might even bring you down below average.
So so you got that chart.
And that's it.
Okay.
So now we got that.
It's the holistic talent chart.
That's what we'll call it.
We got the holistic talent chart on one side.
Now in your head, I want you to picture on the other side.
The other side is another chart.
Also one to 10.
One being the least 10 being the most.
And this chart is to grade success.
Now.
This is not easy to do because of course you can ask yourself what is success.
Right.
What is really being successful.
And this is a good question.
And I remember I don't know if you remember that.
When people started to ask me a lot about like how to raise your kids.
And I said, well, I don't want to talk about how to raise kids.
Because I don't know if I'm a success.
I don't know if my kids are successful.
I don't know if I should be giving that advice.
Because what if my kids aren't successful?
And when I started talking about that question, it's like, okay, water.
If my kid, if one of my kids goes and get a job at an investment bank and is making
$450,000 a year as a 26 year old.
Is that successful?
It could be, but what if that kid is miserable?
What if that kid is doing cocaine?
Right.
That's not successful.
That's horrible.
So it's very hard to.
So that makes you start thinking about what is success.
But I think we can generally know and understand what success probably is when you look
at these individual categories.
Right.
So, okay.
Good family.
Right.
You've got a good stable scenario going on with your family.
If you're old enough to have a family, if you're not old enough to have a family,
at least you are prepared to have a good family life.
Right.
That type of thing.
That's one level of success.
You're not a ratifying job.
Meaning a job that, because you can, I know people that make a ton of money in their job
and they hate it.
Yes.
Right.
So that's successful.
Mmm.
Maybe not.
I know people that love their job but they don't make any money.
And they're struggling paycheck to paycheck.
Does that, is that success?
Mmm.
I don't know.
Again, these are all things we could kind of weigh out.
Mmm.
And then you've got health and wellness because even though we talked about what you're
given naturally, you got to remember that you think you can work for something.
And you can be successful and be healthy and be mobile and be not worried about getting out
of breath when you walk up the stairs or whatever.
So the overall health and wellness.
And so again, you have to take all these different types of success, all of them.
And wrap them up holistically and I don't know.
Can we throw and this might be the wrong.
You could possibly throw kind of a strain.
You could possibly throw just the whole word happiness on to the situation.
Right.
This, the general term happiness where I, but I think that's a scary thing to do.
Mmm.
Because happiness isn't necessarily a good thing.
In terms of you meet someone that's had a few beverages.
And even though they're alive, so does ask your man there having a good time at the bar.
And they're pretty happy.
Is this, this is our goal?
Not really.
That's why I think happiness is a, I don't know that I would throw it into this chart.
I would call it success because it has a little bit more strength to it.
Mmm.
Now, you got your, you got your two, you got your two charts now.
Mmm. On the left, you have holistic talent.
Is that what I called it?
Yes, holistic talent.
Holistic talent on the left.
On the right, you have holistic success.
Success.
Now, here's the question.
And I could ask you where you are on the success side.
Yeah.
Where are you?
Oh.
Seven.
Okay.
Good. Good.
So you were a five for talent and you're a seven for success.
That's pretty, that's pretty legit.
Let me ask you this.
Is every person, that is at the top of the talent chart,
holistically with everything they've got is every one of those people that scores a nine point eight at the top of the success chart.
No, no, no, no.
The answer is no.
Is every person that's on the bottom of the talent holistic talent chart on the bottom of the success chart?
No, the answer is no.
And what do we see?
We see that there's a, well, when you put the space in between these two,
there's talent, holistic talent, and there's holistic success.
And there's a space in between.
And that's what actually matters.
What do you do?
The thing, and to me, and I hate to get.
I hate to throw this out there.
But for me, the thing that's in between the left and the right, the thing that's in between talent success is,
can be summed up in one word, discipline.
Do you have the discipline to do the work to make the hard decisions to put in the daily grind that's going to get you from wherever you started out with whatever level of talent you had and move yourself a bat chart on the right hand side?
I think it's important to recognize this.
And this conversation, this particular conversation of the first time I had it, was with a younger person who I could see in their eyes had the sense of like, I don't know if I have the talent.
And it's like, well, you know, I don't know if you have the talent either.
There's one way to find out.
You do the hard work.
You implement discipline on your life.
And that will give you the opportunity to see how far up that success.
One thing I can tell you, if you don't have the discipline and you don't do the work, you're not going to be above your holistic talent level at all.
There's some people that make a run for it, man.
You know what I mean?
There's some people that have no talent or very limited talent, but they get after it.
And they end up way off far on the success.
And or you know what I think is good about this, when you get some success, you kind of compound that back into your hard work and people start to get on an upward spiral upward mobility towards the top of the success chart because they got a little foothold.
Once they got that foothold to feel good, then they take another step, they get a little bit further.
And then they get a little a little bit more success boom.
And then they use that to propel themselves up a little higher.
The problem is the reverse happens as well.
That's the problem.
People feel a little bit of they got beat at something.
The bad luck came the way.
Because you know what?
On this in between, there's some luck in between the discipline.
There's absolutely some luck as well.
There's some luck.
And you can get lucky.
You can meet the right person at the right time.
You can you can make a move at the right time before anyone else did.
You can you can get discovered by someone or something.
You know, there's definitely some luck involved.
For sure.
You can't count on the luck.
The luck is not the reason.
Some people like to look at someone else and say they're lucky.
They didn't see the thousands and thousands of hours of hard work that person put it.
They just saw that last little end result where they got lucky,
allegedly.
Yeah.
The luck thing is weird because if you can extrapolate it out like someone who
Okay, when I played football, we had to do these cool shirts.
And they say something on the back with a front.
I don't know whatever.
Oh, and it says chance favors.
One of them said chance favors the prepared man.
True.
So it's like the same thing.
Right.
Chance and luck.
Same thing.
So you'll like the more prepared you are, the more skills you have,
the more whatever.
The quote unquote luck you're going to get.
But really when you switch the word luck for chance, you just increase your chances of success.
True.
So like, you know, I don't know who got discovered.
You know, there they're going to be in a position to be discovered.
Yeah.
You know, because whoever quote unquote discovered,
I'm sure many people have been in that situation too.
You know, like, you know, some guy goes on the news, right with his baskets that he makes,
you know, whatever.
And boom, he blows up because those baskets are dope.
But brand planning people have been on the news with your thing.
You know, for years, decades, centuries may be a woman.
That's actually, but, you know, for like, not two years, actually, let's go.
People can go in on the news with their thing for a long time.
Yeah.
Same thing with American Idol.
A lot of people been on American Idol.
Yeah.
Seems like how many people really made it right.
You know, as far as getting discovered or whatever, like, oh, yeah, you got lucky.
Whatever.
Yeah, man.
But you're not going to get lucky if you're, if you're kind of whack, you know, if you're, you're not prepared.
If you're, you don't have the skill, you don't have the talent, you don't have the X, Y, Z.
That it takes.
Then yeah.
So it's kind of like, yeah, the luck is sprinkled in there everywhere, by the way.
You know, and maybe they didn't get discovered on the news.
But maybe they went to somewhere else, and then got discovered, you know, a year, two years later,
or whatever, you know, so you just increase the probability being discovered when you have the skill.
So yeah, luck.
Sure.
It is part of it.
It is a thing for sure.
But yeah, it can propel you a little bit faster sometimes.
Yeah, but it's, it's like one of those things where you talk like a foothold, right?
There's a bunch of, it's, footholds everywhere, just because someone latched onto one specific one that everyone's a point to and say he got lucky there.
Well, he's so good, or she's so good.
Most of the time, most of the time, his exception.
Most of the time, most of the time, most of the time, that person's so good, they wouldn't got discovered somewhere else anyway.
It's just a matter of all this particular one, made them get discovered and propelled them all quicker, whatever.
Yeah.
Well, this ties back into something that I've said before, and I'll say it again right now, is make your luck.
You, you got to make your luck.
And if you make it, if you keep, if you keep putting forth the maximal effort, that luck is going to come.
You're going to make your luck happen.
You know, that, you know, that actually, when we came, when tasking a bruiser came home from Iraq, there was, you know, people like all he got super lucky on that deployment because we got a lot of action, right?
And there was two like immediate thoughts behind that was number one like, hey, you know, first of all, we lost our bros like there nothing lucky about that was the first immediate thought in my head was like, hey man.
Because the bottom line is seals want to go into combat.
Bad.
And that's just the broad statement.
And so when we came home had been in a lot of combat and killed a lot of bad guys and people were kind of saying, hey, you guys got lucky.
And again, the first thought was, hey man, you know, if this is luck, I don't want it.
The second thought was just like the same thing.
Like, oh, we got lucky. We didn't like crush ourselves and the work up and try and be the most, you know, prepared we could be and then get overseas and then form relationships with all the conventional forces and do good work for them and continue to, you know, just get go as hard as we could the whole time.
No, that didn't have anything to do with it. It was just luck and it kind of fell into our lap.
But you know, of course, just not your head and say thanks man, appreciate it. Yeah, good times.
So luck is definitely a part of it a little part because where we was I lucky to be in Ramadi because I could have deployed a year later and a year later, Ramadi was passed by. So is there luck there?
They're absolutely is.
So I don't want to sound arrogant, but luck is a part.
It's like foot locks. It's like heal hooks.
They're a part of the game. They're not a game changer.
We had a group come in. This is back in the day. A group came in. A guy's that were known for foot locking and heal hookin.
And what they didn't they thought we were a GG2 guys normal.
GG2 guys, but we weren't because we were D.
So we were foot locking, heal hookin all the time.
And these guys came in and immediately they were going for these kind of guys that would go, and I don't know if you remember this time period in GG2.
It was like immediate they're going for a foot lock, like just diving for it.
But they didn't know that we did foot locks all the time and you weren't going to just grab a foot lock on Dean, Lester, or me.
Like that, this wasn't going to happen.
And it kind of, then it also, and they didn't have the rest of GG2.
They had the rest of the game. So then it was not good for them because they only had this one dimensional game.
And that's what taught me that foot locks are important, but they're not more important than a choke or a guard pass.
They are definitely part of the game. You can't leave out, but they're not a game changer.
And you see that now, now that you see everyone broadly getting good at the whole leg locking foot locking, heal hookin game.
Now you see it coming back around where you have to have the rest of GG2 as well.
Like even as much as like a year ago, it was like, oh, this guy got this crazy heal hook in the guy tapped and you didn't know what was happening.
That very rapidly changes into, okay, the guy went for a heal hook, the other guy got out.
Now we got to back where we back to, we're back to the GG2.
So same thing, luck is a factor, it's not the factor.
All right, now that's number one. This is the number one thing I wanted to talk about today.
If you're in that position where you're looking at your talent, and I guess this is, I guess it's applicable to people that are a little bit younger,
because people that are a little bit older, they probably figured this out already.
You probably looked at yourself in the mirror and said, hey, look, I might not have that much talent,
but I can get after it. You know, it's something you say about basketball too.
And I know you want to basketball, but I play basketball, growing up.
And when I was growing up, it was like the hey day of the lakers and the Celtics rivalry and all this.
Well, the hard work, right, just this like, hey, I'm going to work harder than anyone else to make up for my lack of talent.
And they would say about Larry Bird, you know, Larry Bird is, yes.
They would say, this is kind of garbage, say Larry Bird wasn't athletic, which is total garbage.
I mean, but people would say that, and maybe it's because they didn't have the biggest vertical jumper, whatever.
And they'd say he was like slower than other players, but he works so hard that he was able to compensate for that.
Now again, when I heard that when I was a kid, I kind of believed that when you see Larry Bird now,
when I watched, you know, games, he was he's a freaking awesome athlete.
You know, and you're not playing in the NBA and being a world champion over and over again MVP without being an awesome athlete.
How tall was Larry Bird? How old is he?
How tall? He was like, six, eight.
He was a little tall guy, everybody was kind of in his mud web, who's like five something.
Yeah, yeah, mud web for sure.
There is that, yeah, man. I did get there and remember this.
The mud web probably had to work harder to make.
What about there's a guy named, I think his name was Muggsy Bugs.
You remember Muggsy Bugs? He was now he was even smaller than his mud web.
But he was so small that people, it was a different little situation that the players had to deal with.
He was so small, so fast.
You know what's interesting? I got some friends in hockey and as a matter of fact, the goals, the goals.
The goal. The San Diego goals.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah.
So I went down and talked to the goals.
And what's cool about what's cool about that level of athletics, which is the minor leagues,
the goals are a minor league team.
What's cool about that level of athletics is those guys are hungry.
They're not prima donas that are driving around in a chauffeur car and all that stuff.
These guys are hungry and they're playing hard.
And what's interesting is in hockey. And this is within the last few years.
At one point, a few years ago, they were just getting the bigger and bigger and bigger hockey players.
Just getting bigger guys because you're just, just monster guys that are 6, 6, 6, 5.
And 6, 4, and they weigh at, you know, 260.
And that was the way hockey was going.
But then what happened was they started bringing out these guys that were smaller and faster.
And that could go maneuver quicker than the bigger guys.
And all of a sudden, hockey's going back in that direction of smaller, faster guys.
So it's interesting.
And the amount of talent that that employees, hey, figured out,
you can make something happen, mugsy bugs, spud web, make it happen, regardless of height.
But to my point, Larry Bird, when I was a kid, I would hear about Larry Bird not being a good athlete.
And all you had to do is work hard.
Which left me an impression on me as a kid.
Hey, look, Larry Bird's not that great athlete, but he's got work hard.
So we asked what I'm going to do, work hard, work hard, go.
Oh yeah.
They said about Dan Gable too.
Yeah.
The wrestler.
Hey, maybe not the fastest.
But his thing was, oh, I'll outwork them all.
You ever heard stories about him?
Dan Gable?
Yeah.
He would just run from every place he would go, he would run.
Oh, no.
From the class to class in college, from class to the cafeteria, he'd run everywhere.
So hard work.
Now, okay, so that wraps up.
We got talent on the one side.
We got success on the other side.
And that's cool.
And we know that we can progress up that chart for the young people out there.
And even the old people out there.
If you're on the lower end of that chart of the talent chart,
boom, work hard, apply discipline, make good decisions.
You can end up further.
You can order the top of that success chart.
Boom.
Now, we're going to get away.
I guess we're going to get away from the holistic success a little bit here, maybe not.
Maybe, maybe not.
This is a conversation that I've also had.
And it had primarily with two two people that I know pretty well, one of them very well and one of them
decently well.
And this is the conversation.
These two individuals.
High talent.
High in the talent chart.
So what does that mean?
They're smart.
You know, they've got that personal interoperability with other human beings on top of that
super driven on top of that.
They've got the whole work thing too.
They've got the discipline thing down too.
They've got all that.
They're maxed out in the game that they're playing.
So what do I mean by that?
Insucker.
How many goals can you score?
Let's say you're the best team.
You're the best player on your team and you're going to play a season worth of soccer.
How many goals can you score?
No, we'll season.
I don't know how many games do you see?
I don't know.
Let's call it.
Let's say you play 15 games.
So you're going to.
I don't know.
45 maybe 60 goals.
Okay.
That's clear.
We're going to realistic.
We'll take it.
15, 33 goals.
45.
Yeah, we'll go.
This guy gets a hatrick which is a rarity in soccer.
We'll say he gets it for every game for a 15 games season.
That's where he ends up.
He ends up at 45 goals.
We'll totally watch kids soccer.
Okay.
My numbers are my peel off.
A little bit.
Okay.
Now what if you were a basketball player?
How many goals can you make in basketball?
You're going to game.
You know, realistically on the high end, 21 points.
Then you multiply that time to season.
And you obviously can score way more in basketball than you can in soccer.
Clearly.
This is where again, I've had this conversation primarily around the financial aspects of
work for people.
If you get in, you have to look at the game that you're playing.
Because sometimes the game that you're playing in soccer.
And it doesn't matter how much talent you have and doesn't matter how much hard work you,
you put into it.
You can only score 45 goals and that's it.
And meanwhile, someone that maybe doesn't even have the talent and doesn't have the work ethic
that you had, but they're playing a different game and they're scoring 200, 300, 400 goals.
They're making two, three times as much money as you.
Why?
Because the game that they are playing.
So you have to look at that every game just about.
Well, I'll say every game that you can play has a cap on it of what you can actually make.
Until you get to the top and you look at it and you change your angle.
You change your angle of the game.
You could say I'm going to create a new game.
You could get really good at soccer and say, you know what?
I've maxed this game out.
I'm going to create a new game where it's a smaller field than a bigger goal.
You know, you could do that.
And people do that in industry, right? People do that in industry.
They get to the top of their game and they start a new game, a different game.
They change the rules a little bit when they can score more.
I'm totally supportive of that.
The problem is, I just want to make sure that people recognize that sometimes you've put in awesome.
You're a very talented person.
You've put in a lot of work.
And you got to the, you got to the, you, you, you capped out your game.
You're going to get as many goals as you're going to get. That's it.
And so you can't get frustrated.
I'll tell you what.
I was in the Navy.
Did get everyone.
I was in, I retired as an O4E over 20, which means, which means I was a priori, unless the guy, you can go look at what my salary was.
And then you can add my little specially pays in for jump dive demo, special duties.
And I'm in pay. You can add those little things in there.
You can add my beat, officer housing, basic allowance for housing in there.
You can figure out. I mean, it's, you're going to make this much money.
That's it. That's the cap.
Yeah.
That's what you're going to make.
Now, now we start to talk about, can you play multiple games at the same time?
And the answer to that is yes, you can.
You can play multiple games.
Now, I kind of, I kind of said this on a different podcast.
Somebody talked about, you know, having a side hustle while you're in the military.
And I was like, well, no, you can't really do that because, you know, you've got to focus 100% under job.
And then, but the reality is, I had a side hustle a whole time I was in.
Because I guess what I was doing, I was buying houses.
I was saving my money. I was driving 1997 Dodge Grand Caravan.
And I was buying a house here. I was buying a house there.
And that's, when you have a, when you have an alternate job or an alternate game that you're going to play in the military,
it's okay. It just has to be on a complete, not to interfere basis.
So, doesn't interfere occasionally if you're, if you've got a few properties and one of them has a broken water heater,
you can mitigate that by making sure you got a good property manager and making sure you know the right handyman.
I can go over and square that stuff.
We can get that problem solved. I had some kind of catastrophic situations.
I had the big flood.
So, the big flood.
No, a slab, like, a little cracked pipe in the slab.
I had a crack, one of my rentals has flooded twice.
Wants from the ceiling, wants from the ground.
How does it flood from the ceiling?
From the ceiling, crack pipe upstairs.
Upstairs bathroom, crack pipe somewhere.
Boom, drip, drip, drip. Next thing you know, you've got water damage.
The other one pipes run through the slab because something goes wrong or whatever.
And that thing starts to leak.
Tenants don't say anything for a long period of time.
Even though here in their hand, squished, squished, squished under the, under the, the flooring.
They don't say anything. Guess what? Everything's ruined.
You've got to come in.
You know, so, what do you do with those catastrophic situations?
Well, if you've got the right management team in place,
get tangled.
Get tangled. Make the phone calls.
People get it taken care of.
You don't have to worry about it.
So, you can do that.
It's got to be on a not-to-interfue basis with your primary job
if you're in the military.
And really, it's the same thing if you have a primary, you know, you've got your primary job.
You're working for someone. You're doing nine to five.
You don't want to interfere.
You want, you want your side alternative gig
to be on a not-to-interfue basis
with your primary gig.
Now, the other thing that you can do.
And this is where you start to look at, okay, because you, you, you, you, you, you play in games.
You're playing these different games because you want to move yourself up on the success level.
Sometimes you have, and I see people do this and some people do this really well.
They have one game that they're playing to make money.
They have another game that they're playing to, you know, to win in their health, right?
They're doing marifons.
They're, they're, they're jack and steel. They're, they're doing jujitsu.
They've got another game that they're playing to get some sort of gratification out of life.
Some kind of positive gratification out of life.
Whether they're working as a volunteer, whether they're donating time to the soup kit,
whatever you're, they're doing, they're doing something that's giving them some gratification that they're moving the ball forward for humanity.
And that's, that's, that's a good thing in my opinion.
So sometimes I think someone's, they're, they're, they're losing their soul because they're working a job to make money.
They don't like it. They're not healthy.
And they, and they feel like they're just giving all their time to the man.
What should that person do?
And that's the situation.
Find some other games that you can play to.
Find some other games.
Find a game to take care of your health.
Find a game to take care of your family.
I mean, you know, for, for family, right?
How do you, what game can you play to take,
make sure you get the family unity that you want?
There's all kinds of things that you can do, right?
Whether it's camping, whether it's vacation,
whether it's going on rock climbing trips, whether it's everyone going to do jujitsu,
whether it's you're doing a 15 minute PT in the morning, whatever.
But there's, there's some games that you can play to get that side of things.
So there's all kinds of these various,
will call them games that get played.
But what I find, this is the whole point of this conversation.
What I find is people aren't aware that they're in a specific game.
And that game has limitations in that game, has rules.
And if you don't recognize that, you're going to play that game,
and you're going to keep playing that game, soccer game,
and you think you're going to get more goals.
They're not coming because you can't do it.
That game is limited in someone's right.
So what you have to do is you have to either change the game,
or you've got to find a new game to get into.
If you're young, look at what game you're going to play,
and figure out how you're going to win in multiple games
so that you can move yourself up on the success.
Holistic success chart.
Sure.
So there you go.
That's the first thing I wanted to talk about today.
Number one.
This second thing I wanted to talk about is Connor versus Kabib.
Okay, so Connor versus Kabib.
And once again, this I realized, I think the only other time we've talked about a fight
in on this podcast was another Connor fight.
I think it might have been Connor versus Nate.
So why are we talking about this fight?
Well, there's just two major reasons.
Well, there's three major reasons I guess.
Now, one is, was it the biggest fight of all time?
And you have seen it possibly was.
I don't know.
What do you think?
Yeah, I mean, I don't know.
It's hard to compare now because, yeah, I would say,
no, I would say, yeah, because the fan base is probably bigger than it's
ever been. Yeah, just overall. What about the hype behind this fight?
No, I felt like, well, then again, I don't know, that could be my bubble.
Okay. I didn't hear as much about it.
I heard a lot about it for sure.
I didn't, but I didn't know which one did you hear more about.
Just a John Jones, some of the John Jones fights.
I remember.
Yeah. And then also like some of the Brock Lesnar fights.
I remember thinking like, dang, there's just you.
Here's what I think.
I don't know.
No, no, no, no.
I was a Jose Aldo. Jose Aldo and Conrad Gregory, that might have been bigger.
Yeah.
And they did more tour. They did the big press thing.
Here's though.
I think that people had a better handle on what could happen
in the Jose Aldo fight.
I think people didn't know what was going to happen in this fight.
Yeah.
What's funny is, for me, I was wrong, by the way,
but it was the opposite.
I thought, oh, Jose Aldo's going to beat this guy up.
Really.
And then actually this one I thought could be was going to win too.
Yeah.
So that's let's get to that then.
All right.
I sent out a tweet, which I normally, you know, don't,
and so I sent out a tweet.
Here's the tweet.
Here's the tweet that I actually sent out.
It was to the notorious MMA, which is Conrad.
I said, stay outside the first three rounds.
Don't over commit strikes.
Mostly jabs.
Get booed by the crowd.
Doesn't matter.
Fustrate could be force bad shots, tire him out in the fourth,
start stepping up the striking in the fifth, let it go,
and finish him.
Good luck.
John Cavanaugh at John Cavanaugh.
Tagged his coach.
Because his coach, well, okay, no,
people are going, okay, well, why are you rooting for Conrad, my
Gregor?
And some people went like a little crazy.
Like, why are you when he's a bad,
sets a bad example for the sport and all that.
So actually the reason is because I've communicated with coach
Cavanaugh, a decent amount on Twitter and little DMs and all that.
And just, you know, he just has been kind of like a cool guy.
And here he was going into coach, his fighter in the biggest fight
of Conrad's life.
And, you know, just because we've had that little
conversation, we've had conversations on Twitter a bunch,
and we've just just threw that out there, like two hours before,
I mean, we always watching the first fights when I threw that out there.
And you know what the really funny thing is,
John Cavanaugh texted back or he tweeted back,
copy.
So he actually read it and responded, which is pretty crazy.
So anyways, because I have had a little interaction with Coach
John Cavanaugh, I felt like, you know,
hey, I'll throw this out there.
Also, you know, Hans is like boys with Conrad, right?
And Hans is my boy.
So I was, you know, that association.
There's association.
You know, I'm going to be like, hey, Hans is my boy.
And he has been for a long time.
And he's bros with Conrad.
And so I just, you know, like, again.
So people are, why did you why you voting for this guy when,
so there's that whole thing.
And now the, the other odd thing about this is,
you have a striker versus a grappler.
Who do I root for in a striker versus a grappler?
Grappler.
I always root for the grappler.
And I know that factually and statistically,
the grappler has the advantage because grappling versus striking
the grappler wins most of the time.
How can you go the distance with this argument?
Sure, you can took it all the people that all the times that
a striker is actually a good grappler.
And then they don't use their grappling,
but they use their grappling only to defend from being taken down.
Chuck Ladell.
And there's a bunch of, there's countless guys that you can now name that
knocked people out and we're known for their stand-up,
what they really were and their base was that they were good
restaurant going to be taken down.
So, but generally striker versus grappler,
the striker, and this is what I talk about from a self defense
perspective, right?
If you're a good striker, then that means you can run away.
And if you're a good grappler once you get a hold of someone,
you can defeat someone that has good striking.
Here's the thing that people understand.
In order for you to punch someone, you have to get close enough for them
that where they can take you down.
You have to get into their take down branch.
They have to get into the red zone.
So once you're in the red zone, you can get taken down.
So, how do you defeat that as a, as a striker,
how do you defeat a really good grappler?
The way you do it is by, what I just said, you stay on the outside.
You touch person up.
You don't over commit to it because the harder you know this,
how many rounds have you done of MMA sparring?
Countless.
Okay, me too.
So, when I would be going against a striker,
the harder they throw at you, the easier it is to take them down.
All day long.
And when I'm going against a wrestler that I don't want to get taken down against,
like I used to do this to Dean, then just frustrate them.
You know, not commit to any punches, not throw any kicks at all,
sit there in jab and run away for basically two or three rounds.
And even Dean, who's a far superior wrestler to me,
he would have a very, very hard time taking me down.
Yeah.
So, this is a legit strategy.
The reason I know it's a legit strategy is because people have used it against Dean.
When Dean was fighting MMA, people used that particular strategy against him.
And it worked.
And so I know the strategy works.
Guys that Dean was infinitely better on on the ground.
And yet he couldn't take him down.
And he was infinitely better at wrestling.
Why couldn't he take him down?
Because they weren't playing that game.
They weren't playing the MMA game.
They were playing the Amida jab you and stay away.
Now, a couple of things also,
Conner's attitude, Conner's, what do you want to call it?
His, his, his, the way he behaves, right?
He's un-sportsmen-like and he's a trash talking all about.
I get it.
Number one, he's, he's trying to sell fights.
Like, we, we, is he a very confident, perhaps an overconfident guy.
But actually maybe, but if you ever see this work ethic, it's freaking solid.
He's always respectful after loss.
So when he loses, he, he, he is respectful.
And he says, hey, good job.
You got beat, you know, he doesn't, he's not, he's not a sport loser.
And he's a hard worker.
And do I wish that he would be able to be a little bit differently?
I don't, yeah, I mean, it's, it's him.
It's another thing is, that's him.
You know what I mean, that's him.
And you can't expect guys that are going to do what he's going to do for
Living to behave the way that you want them to behave.
It's the same thing with guys that are in the military, right?
You can't expect a guy that's going to go put his life on the line to be, as, as
Kippling says, a plaster saint, right?
Doesn't happen.
You got a guy that you want to go kill people and you want him to,
put his life at risk.
Guess what?
He's going to get a little crazy sometimes.
And as a leader as a, even as society, we have to look at those guys.
Go, okay, look, we'll give you a little bit of room.
We want you to stay in the box here.
We don't want you to get out of control.
And that happens all the time.
Military guys get in trouble all the time.
They get out of the box.
But you got to give him a little bit of room.
If you, if you didn't want that type of person,
you would have known and then, well, you would have a very few people in the military.
And the problem that's attitude is, you know, hey, I'm a saint.
Well, I guess what a saint doesn't want to go hunt people down and kill him.
A saint doesn't want to get in the mud and blood and guts and be in that situation.
It's very similar with fighters.
Now, are there fighters that do behave in an idealistic way?
Sure, absolutely.
Are are.
Is that preferred?
Sure, that's great to see.
I won't prefer it.
I don't know.
But it's great to see.
I mean, probably, in my, I want to, I don't know who my favorite fighter of all time is.
But Fedor is definitely at the, you know, he's in the top three of just my favorite.
And one of my favorite things about Fedor is,
Fedor showed no emotions ever at any time.
Winner loose the same reaction.
He mostly won.
But he would just raise his hand.
Like he wouldn't barely even raise his hand.
Yeah, it'd be like a half or half.
Yeah, it'd be like half.
Just destroyed this person in one $2 million here in Japan.
And I'm taking the pride of, you know, rush a home with me.
No big deal.
Yeah.
I'm going to go with the kettlebell.
Socceraba.
Socceraba is the same way.
Very, and the thing that was funny about soccer.
Again, he's one of my favorite fighters.
It's soccer.
Robah, the only thing that was, you could, you could hold again.
Socceraba is sometimes he would like clown people almost.
Yeah.
And he was almost had some of that professional wrestling stuff going on.
So anyways, uh,
Conner is Conner, Conner will mature.
He'll get older.
And that's fine.
He backs it up.
He puts it on the line, bro.
He puts on.
He doesn't avoid fights.
I can say that.
You know, he takes the hardest fights.
He can possibly find when he, when he lost to Nate Diaz to say,
I want to fight him again next.
Yeah.
You know, that's legit.
So anyways, there was a couple of people that were like,
straight up, just hostile.
Why are you supporting Conneries,
A bad sport.
He's a represent.
It's like, okay, I get it.
So there's why John Cavana, Great Coach,
My buddy Hans, friends with him.
Um,
Yeah.
Now for the actual game plan,
the actual game plan.
That I talked about.
Number one, stay outside.
Stay outside.
You stay outside the range of that person.
You get just a week and barely touching with a jab,
and you get ready to sprawl.
Now Conner actually did a good job.
He sprawled a few times.
He defended the take down on several occasions.
He did a good job on the bottom of,
you know,
Kaby does this thing that Dean does too,
which is he ties up your legs with his legs.
Kind of like captures him.
And when you can't pull your legs out,
when you're up against the cage,
you cannot get up.
Conner got his legs out over and over.
Over that was impressive.
Yeah.
So that's the number one.
You stay outside.
It's really hard to take.
You know, even even against someone that's a great wrestler.
Me.
And I'm not a great wrestler.
I can,
I can back up and stay away.
It's where I'm really hard to take down.
And so is anybody.
If you,
if you're,
soul goal is to knock it taken down.
Yeah.
It's actually,
not that hard to knock it taken down.
Now,
it changes when you,
when you start committing to your punches,
it changes when you start trying to knock someone out.
It changes when you start getting into a wrestling match with people.
Then it's easy to get taken down.
You know,
Taylor, right?
All the way to take down on Taylor.
As soon as we start mixing it up,
guess what?
Getting taken down.
Because I play his game.
Can't play his game.
Okay.
Next part.
Don't over commit.
What happens when you throw strikes?
Your weight goes forward when your weight is forward.
You,
you can get taken down.
That's all there is to it.
So you don't want to throw big heavy punches early
because that's when the take down is going to come.
Mostly,
jabs again.
That's the lightest punch you're for this to weigh.
I wouldn't even throw kicks.
Maybe a couple kicks,
but I wouldn't throw him.
He's fast,
Connors fast,
so he might be able to get away with it.
But I probably wouldn't even throw any kicks in the first round.
Maybe start throwing some kicks in the second round.
But kicks again.
Kick,
take time and a well-time shot.
We'll take you down on a kick.
Can you chop at the legs?
Yeah.
You can chop at the legs.
I can have a big negative impact on the person you're fighting.
Getting boot, right?
Why did I say get boot?
The reason I said get boot is because if you're doing this strategy, right?
People are mad at you because they think you're avoiding the fight.
They think that you're not being aggressive and they're going to get mad.
The crowd is going to hate you.
And that's just what you got to deal with, right?
When your crowd is frustrated and annoyed at you,
guess what?
So as you're opponent.
So now your opponent starts getting frustrated and taking that shots.
That shots.
Be careful.
And when that opponent is taking shots that are outside the zone,
you basically have to be able to put your hands on someone through the most part in order to get a good shot and take them down.
When you're outside that zone,
there's a fraction of a second difference that it takes you to get to the grip on the person that you can stop it.
You can stop it.
You can't shoot from too far away.
And when you get someone frustrated and you're touching them up with jabs and they're getting
mad and they're hearing the booze, the crowd, they get frustrated.
They start shooting from far away.
When they start shooting from far away, you sprawl on them.
You put your hands on the back of their heads.
You stand back up, you walk away and you make them do it again.
You make them do it again.
I said tire amount.
And a lot of people were saying, oh,
Conor's cardio is no good.
And that's not a good plan.
You're an idiot.
That type of thing.
The reason I said that is because first of all,
wrestling is for the most part.
Wrestling is more tiring than striking.
That being said, if someone's a good wrestler and not a good striker,
they're going to get more tired striking than they are wrestling.
So you take, you take,
caboebe out of his game.
His game is wrestling.
He's not getting tired wrestling.
He's getting a little bit tired.
However, when he shot four times in around and you've defended all of them,
it is absolutely easier to defend take downs than it is to do take downs.
It's a lot easier.
I mean, we do these drills all the time.
In fact, the way that we run the drills,
when you're the first monkey in the middle,
you're the one that's doing to take downs.
When you're more tired,
all you have to do is defend the take downs.
Why?
Because it's easier to defend take downs.
You don't have to work as hard.
All you have to do is counter what they're doing.
So you take him and you tire him down
and counter,
counter is not going to get tired while he's striking.
He's going to get less tired while he's striking.
Again, could, could,
could counter use and improve in his cardio?
Sure.
I've seen him fade.
We've all seen him fade.
That's a bad thing.
He needs to step that game up.
I'd love to look at his training and see where we could fill in those holes.
But the bottom line is he's going to get more tired,
which he did when he's in a wrestling, grappling scenario.
Then he does when he's standing up.
He looks like he's walking through the park when he's standing up.
So you do that.
You, you, you, you, that's what you do.
You stand up your tire him out and you don't over commit and let him run out of you.
Now, some people say, we usually connish and just try to knock him out.
There's a problem with that idea.
Is that great?
Is it great when it happens to all though?
Sure.
You can't count on knockouts.
You can't count on him.
When you're throwing knockout punches,
guess what happens?
You're over committing when you're over committing.
It's easy to get taken down.
So there you go.
Now what actually happened in the fight?
Conner pressed forward almost the whole time.
Which, which when you press forward,
it's easy for a grappler to time, your,
move forward movement and shoot on you and take you down.
And, and that's what happened.
Like I said, he escaped.
He escaped from the mountain position.
A few times that was impressive.
He got, did you see the camera?
Yes.
Yeah, the attempt.
Could be, could be, but had a, a camera on him.
Yes.
legit,
a camera now's like, oh, this is over.
Nope.
Conner got out.
I think Conner got out through brute just like strength.
So he got out of that.
He recovered, recovered guard a few times.
He freed his legs from those weird,
half guard sort of leg control things that Dean does.
He freed his legs from those a bunch of times.
He survived fairly well on the bottom in the early rounds.
And that's all he needed to do.
If he would have done this game plan of staying away,
if he got taken down with one minute left,
because he starts don't, then you survived for a minute.
It's okay.
You survived for a minute that rounds over and then you get to try again.
Again, the reason that I know this game plan works
is because it's been used against my fighter, Dean.
And, you know, who did Amar,
who left, he's a Dean talked about.
He's a Russian guy that ended up like mafia dude or something.
Hit him, hit him, hit him.
But that's what he did.
Just stay away.
The guy was a better striker and don't overcommit.
And that's what happens.
And you know, what's also weird is people even do this in
Juditzu matches.
Yeah.
They do this in ADCC where, hey, if I'm a great wrestler
and you're a better at Juditzu than me,
and I don't want to go to the ground with you,
I just play the patty cake for a while,
and then what I do is when there's one minute left,
I do one take down, I get two points and then I cover up and hold
and I win the match.
So people do this in Juditzu, they do this.
Another thing that they do in Juditzu,
and this is something that you have to work on
as a Juditzu practitioner,
let's say you and I are training.
And you get the take down on me.
What do I do?
Well, I engage with my guard.
I start looking for grabbing your arm.
I start looking for neck control.
I immediately start doing Juditzu with you.
If I want to really,
I have, there's another, there's a whole
another game I can play with you,
which is you take me down.
I immediately try and get back up.
Yeah.
That's a totally different game.
This fouls up like,
I used to not do this with Dean.
I used to not do this with,
I do it in Andy now because I have to,
because people are going to do that.
People are going to do that.
When you're in a competition,
and someone takes you down,
or you get, yeah, you take someone down.
If they're not comfortable,
if they think you might be a little bit better than normal on the ground,
they're just going to try and get back to the feet.
And that is a different game than just engaging in Juditzu.
Yeah.
Or if they don't like their butt,
they're, you know, guys, they don't like it.
Oh, you'd lay the bottom of your shirt.
So they get taken on, it's like,
you're going to get back up, and that's, if you're not used to that,
that is problematic for you on top.
If you, if you allow that situation to happen.
Yeah.
Yeah. That's why it's good to train with,
I think I said this before,
good to train with MMA guys,
because that's a lot of the time in the case.
Unless they're like straight up Juditzu,
background guys,
but you know, you know,
guys who just have essentially,
what you call a free style,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Kind of style,
yeah, yeah.
And in a sense, we do Juditzu, yeah, any time I'll train with them,
they don't like being on the bottom,
so you're going to get that training.
They're big time feeding the hips.
Oh, you're head away, and they're just trying to get back up.
Yeah.
Again, the theme,
or the reason that all that have all this stuff in my head,
is because it's all about what game are you playing?
Yeah.
What game are you playing?
And, and again,
Connor, that's one of the things that everyone loves about Connor,
myself included,
is he goes in there to fight.
And yet,
that instinct of going forward all the time against a guy that's a superior restaurant
of grappler, which could be certainly is,
and like I said, grappling,
broadly stated,
is superior to striking in a,
in a one-on-one situation.
Yeah.
Do you look hesitant?
No, I agree with that probably more than you do.
Okay, because, and there's obviously,
and I just had someone hit me up on social media,
and I was like, but what if, you know,
what if you get punched on,
what if the striker can punch you?
When you're trying to take them down,
it's like that case is gone through.
And through can a striker knocks someone out?
Yes, they absolutely can.
They have a puncher's chance.
Can you rely on that?
Hell no, you can't.
What were you going to say?
Yeah, that's it.
I mean, yeah, most of the time,
as far as how it has played out.
Yeah, you, yeah, you can knock the guy out.
Oh, yeah, for sure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, it can happen for sure, but yeah,
you just do the you run the statistics
no, it's like way harder to plan a knockout on
a, on a, unless, photos,
were a grappler to plan a submission was way easier,
really.
Like yeah, but even in grappling tournaments,
the guy will be like, hey,
I'm going to go, and I'm going to get this guy in a
Rural naked choke, that's what I'm going to do.
And, against another grappler, by the way.
So yeah, it's way easier to plan
because it's way more methodical.
It's like way less, like, what you call,
like chaotic.
No, I'm, and don't get it wrong, like strikers
know how to control their environment. I did it. Yeah, but just the nature of what it is, you know, there's no doubt and
again
broadly speaking because
I am totally pro striking and you have to be able to strike and you're your mojtine your boxing kills
The better they are the better you are as a human being and I don't know if yeah, I mean if you've ever trained
If anyone here doesn't believe in striking at all go and train with somebody that's a really good high level striker
and they will jack you up. Yes. They will jack you up. You will be you will feel like a white belt in your jitsu on the map
Yes, the only difference is if it's if you talk if you flip a switch and you make it MMA and you can grab hold of them
Yeah, you can you can all of a sudden you can equalize it very quickly
That's why you jitsu came about that this way it was not might came about that's why it came on to the scene
So strong it's because all the striking stuff as awesome as it is
Hmm, we just saw another example of it on Saturday night. That's what I'm talking about
Yeah, and I'm not even saying honor is a far superior if Connor is a phenomenal striker
Once he's on the ground he's on the ground and those strikes don't mean anything anymore
Barely yeah, especially these guys with like super good grappling yeah, and
You know they can keep going you know when you gas and was this bowl going to kind of what your strategy was
If a grappler gases he grappler gases and that goes for anyone in a fight if you gas out your your essentially
In effect, but so kind of that aside the the the reason that Pete that it seems like oh
Yeah, all these guys like a Leo Tomachita right
He was a big one who kind of exploded under the scene and just beat up everyone and he's a karate guy
Right back, both in jitsu by the way, but no one wants to talk about that part
Yeah, or even like a chocolate L type character where he's just knocking he straight up knocking everybody how crap
There's an everything
Superior wrestler by the way, but so it's one of those things where it's like yeah, if you don't know any grappling
Oh, yeah, your your chances of success especially as time goes on go go way down
But most people if they're like primarily striking or striking is there kind of their their success
You know, that's what gives them success they have to learn even like a
Few fundamentals in grappling and get really good at them just defensively to start with but if you don't know anything
Like if you know how to defend the take down that's grappling right there
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and if you get really good at that then okay
That's gonna help you a lot but that's grappling now what if you
Essentially fail at defending the take down meaning you get taken down you have to learn to get back up
If you don't you'll get held down they're straight up if you don't like take a big strong guy and just a normal size person
When I know you do put the big strong guy on his back like even in guard
But he won't get up if you guys like hey don't let him up you won't get up straight up. He and the harder he tries
The less ability he's gonna have to get up. It's like throwing somebody in the water who can't swim
Yeah, and like he can't even tread water now let alone swim he can't tread the try as hard as you can
The harder you try the more it's just gonna not work
But you teach someone to just tread water. Oh, he'll handle he'll handle it a bit
But oh, you just learned how to tread water though. You learned how to swim a little bit
So you gotta learn that stuff and what's nice well
You need to take this into account is that the UFC rounds are our only five minutes
So there are only five minutes which means you could see it took it took time
For Connor's good enough that he's not getting like just caught you you made a quick mistake and get caught
No, he's making a series of mistakes that take time and then finally they get capitalized on
If he can make it three minutes on the feet every round
Man the chances of him getting submitted in two minutes by could be especially when he was made doing good maneuvers on the bottom bottom
They're not really that good and
You know, can you make them say can get guillotine that normally happens to the grapple or that's like grappler versus grappler
I shoot on you you grab the guillotine or I try and post and you doing on mark that usually happens not from
most of those moves come out of me
Me engaging in grappling with you not me getting away from you me getting away from you exposes less
Of grappling submissions unless you do poor mistakes like turn your back then you got a problem
You're gonna have a problem and I suppose we should also talk about the
the after situation after the fight and
You know, Kabib who's normally very stoic and calm
He lost it he ran out the crowd Connor and I was watching in detail some of these little
Clips and Connor was getting nuts to let's let's not make any mistakes
cuz yeah, so and then the guy came in from Connors from Kabib team and soccer punched Connor
That was Narlie and so what do I think of all that?
Yeah, it's horrible is it bad for the sport? Yes, it's bad for the sport
Interestingly Joe Rogan posted that Brendan Schob
Kind of made a prediction. Yeah, he made a prediction that something was gonna get crazy and that's a that was accurate
What do I think about it?
I think it's a bummer. Yeah, this is a bummer. It's a bummer to see. I'm so I was surprised that to see Kabib get crazy like that
The fight was over
You could see that Connor was pretty humble and defeat. He was sitting there like hey, all right
That's a bummer and Kabib got nuts for those moments and I don't know what's gonna happen
I don't know what's gonna happen in terms of I know they didn't they I don't think they paid him yet
They didn't pay him is $2 million per
Yeah, wouldn't that be an athletic commission thing? No. Yeah. It'll definitely be athletic. Yeah, they'll they'll find him they'll take part of his purse
And that's just money. That's like you know when you pay a speeding ticket
Yeah, and the state gets the money. Yes. This is the same thing
So they the athlete Nevada state athletic commission could find him half as person put 1.5 or no
He made $2 million per
He could put a mill it they could put the net Nevada state athletic commission could put a million dollars in their pocket by saying
Oh, you shouldn't have done that. We're finding you. We're finding you half your purse boom
Here's a million dollars. Let's build a new office center
Officer
So I don't know what's gonna happen. It's not good to see that I wish everyone would be better sports
That would be good. Yeah, but people are super emotional and they have a learn to control
Their emotions yet
Which brings me to the third point that I wanted to talk about this week? Sure. What are you gonna say something?
No, no, I dig it but the there is like a bigger kind of picture here with the
Inj is so anything that's quote unquote bad for the sport. All right, that's that that is something but there's two elements
Right there's there's there's the growth of the sport and then there's like
Promotion of the sport for the people who are in the who are in the game
It's a bad press is good press any press is good press rather than that economy
So yeah, the growth of the sport to the guy who doesn't watch MMA because it's so barbaric
We're watching okay, well the pet is fight, right? Same same event pet is and
Ferguson yeah, by the way, I like Ferguson that dude's a hard worker. I like pet us too
Okay, and and I and I definitely like Duke Louis. Yes, my boy my boy
There was you know, we would be cornering people backstage and Duke Louis was always my me is probably doesn't know anything
There's probably wouldn't even barely know who I am at all
But he would always be like super cool
He's awesome. Yeah, so that fight and pet us and pet us is a good dude, too. You know, I like pet us
Yeah, really seems like it
But that was a bloody fight. Yeah, what so and there's bloody fights everyone
All right guys with the huge gash is what not so okay, bloody fight, right? And so me my brother my cousin we were watching this fight and
So these guys are just basically punching each other in the face
Any other in the face bleeding like all over you know like super bloody the kind of where they got to stop the fight
And like hey doctor check this guy that you know, so he gives you a doctor. Oh, hey timeout while we just clean up blood
Off everyone. Yeah, it's so like about minute here. Just a white blood off everyone. Yeah, and me and well
We're just watching like oh whatever like actually it's like there have been more eventful fights than this one
Yeah, like you'd end it in a you know, he broke his hand or whatever
And it was and that was considered un-eventful I broke his hand. Yeah, yeah
I'm watching the guy in the head. Yeah, they stopped the fight and that was un-eventful
We consider that un-eventful and eventful fight is a guy who gets knocked out unconscious flat out
Which with it will be chapping by the way if you fight really anyway
Yeah, so we're watching this blood everywhere. I mean while we're like okay, you know like whatever
But so that my point is the growth of the sport you get a guy who doesn't watch MMA
They only watch you know basketball football the traditional sports and they get a glimpse into MMA and they see that all the blood and stuff
They're like this is a dumb sport. This is not even a sport. This is like this shouldn't be legal
This is like two human beings and everyone changing me know. Okay, so when the fight stopped that that
Petus Ferguson fight it stops right they stop it. They get on how they cut to the crowd everyone
So I'll just see their reaction
There is like businessmen and their suits drinking their drinks. It's like the epitome of like gladiator old school
The king with all the grapes and the stuff and high five and stuff right mean while these two guys are like one guy has a broken-hand
The guy has blood all well. They both have blood all over right so as an outsider looking in you like
It's reasonable to expect them to be like this is this is dumb. This is not a sport. I'm not a sign on to this at all. Okay
Then you get these post-fight shenanigans
Kabib and guys jumping out of the ring into the crowd continuing to fight after he won by the way
So that and I'm not saying that this is how I'm looking at I'm saying this is how an outsider will see it
Interesting and then you see you know months ago
Whatever Connor flying in to New York and busing up the bus
We could be in in and it's this thing and you know all this stuff guys getting injured from the broken glass all this stuff
Right it's a it's not cool for an outsider looking
Yeah, it's like this is not a sport. This is dumb these guys aren't people these aren't civilized people all this stuff
But from the inside
Well, man, I'm really looking forward to this fight now after Connor did that then you know then you know things happen
Conor's talking all this trash. It's like oh Annie's backing it up. Oh my gosh. I want to see this even more now
If you get and I like fader to her. That's it fade or I like him too. What if everyone was like fader though
There would be a lot of fights that you just don't care about you be like a all right cool or
But on the flutters and because I would I would care about all of them
You would not care about you care about them left last I think well
You I don't know I don't know what you care about sometimes but
The people because if the reason fader is fader
To the extent that fader is fader is because of other people are not like fader
It's a comparing to everyone else and it's all crazy and he just sits or it looks at him and then knocks him out or
Jokes him out or remarks because when you think about it isn't that really the martial arts spirit for sure super stoic
And that's how it has it yeah, yeah, yeah, but now hey martial arts let's face it when you're in the game if you watch it
MMA special you'll see if you watch this this is it goes like the martial arts spirit of the thing is very small
Yeah, very small this is a show. Yeah, don't get around this is the show with real punches real kicks blood all that stuff
And this is all part of the show
What happened I definitely think of it more as a sport than I do think of it as a display of martial arts for the community
I'm not thinking about that way anymore
So sport but I would even go beyond sport. It's a show straight up because if it was just a sport you know what they did for the first time
I don't know if you notice as you probably did
They had like fog on the on the octagon
Yeah, I was like only for kind of the dry ice the fact dry ice effect, right really
Like you what do you think I give that the negatron yeah, well, there was a while where UFC was trying to lean towards the other direction
They took away all the show stuff and they made it look like more like a sporty
Yeah, yeah, and we all kind of go back a little bit
Yeah, man it's in because they do ownership over whoa, yeah, and you know those obviously like a quote
I'm called branding play you know we want to kind of go mainstream with the sport edge of it, and you know
Make it a kind of a whole so here's a thing Brad, it's not a whole something like it's totally there's a difference
We need scoring a ball in a basket or running across the Inzo or the goal line for touchdown and all this stuff out running guys
Trying to just basically tuck you to the ground and there's a difference between that being the goal and the goal being to hurt the guy is bad
Is he? Yeah, or they incapacitate them as bad as you know something I said on when I was on Joe Rogan's podcast
I was like if you go watch when any of those other sports when they escalate
They escalate to what you actually want to see which is MMA
Like what happens when a basketball game gets a little too rough they fight each other
What happens when hockey gets a little bit today fight each other what happens when football gets a little bit too rough
They fight even baseball someone someone does something out alive and baseball they fight each other
Yes, let's just get rid of the ball get rid of the net
Get rid of the hockey stick and just puts them on the ball get it on yeah, and that yeah
That's why and that I mean obviously that's a whole whole another thing, but if you and I'm not saying there's necessarily a confusion
Between it like us the sport and the show and the martial arts and all that but I'm just saying they're there three different elements in
The sometimes it just gave me a whole like interesting idea
So sometimes for me I'm so functional like I operate and such a
Functional mindset that it doesn't even work right it just doesn't work
It doesn't work with normal people right like I like hey just like no this is just gonna be
What is gonna be playing if I was if I was in charge of the entire UFC
What would it look like and it would probably just be?
So functional it be the extreme that you would that you're saying people would just be like I don't really know if I want to watch this
And however I would say if you dug deep into the training methodologies and you really understood the people
Which UFC does a decent job now with what's it called when they're leading up to the fight
They're the advantage so you go watch the embedded you get to see kind of it's it's not highly edited embedded
And you get to see what but I would you know for me
I would make the whole thing would be like functional it would be like oh
There would be lights that show you everyone. They would be color lights. Why do you need color lights?
You know what I mean? You get everybody fired. Yeah, no we didn't do that
You can what I get fired up. You see the guy walking in the gauge. That's about to that's about to fight another human being. Well, it doesn't work that way though
Yeah, I know like the even if it like again go back to everyone being stoic
Right, it'd be like it'd be reduced
It would be less of a show and in fact you might even argue that it's kind of has as
We've seen that before like in just like other like you ever watch like like a
Crati tournament or something like that. Yeah, yeah, it's like they don't develop characters or nothing like that
They're just this is guy. Hey, this guy's good and so like cool
I want to see what he's good at and then you sort of forget about it
You don't anticipate that unless you're way way in the game. Yeah, but yeah, my my personal
Vision doesn't always line up well with like the
Drama creation that everyone else likes yeah, but that's that's literally life
That's like why that's why you want to watch it because of the big part of it is because of the job
Chill son and wise man right said one time once one fight ends
That's when the promotion for the next fight begins so that you know when he gets on the mic after the fight is done
He's essentially promoting the next one and but and the thing is it's totally proven like you even like
Someone saying why do you kid why like people coming to you see why are you supporting Connor?
He's such a bad rule model all that that's all good stuff like
Well, if they if they were like oh, who's that guy Connor?
You support this. Let me look into this guy. That's a failure
But yeah, to to level him hate them the thing is if I dislike a guy and there's guys that I dislike I understand
I don't dislike them as people I dislike dislike what we call the UFC character. Yeah, you know like the guy that that's on the mic and doing the whatever
I'm just not a fan action the anti fan. I want him to lose like if he's fighting a guy
Let's like don't know the other guy. What's interesting? You know I think kind of changed my perspective a little bit
Is I like Tito Ortiz he had this where he has a horrible his reputation was always like he was a jerk
And he's a dead guy. Yeah, he was a heal. Yeah, he'll and I I didn't know him well
But I mean I trained with him some and you know Dean Dean trained with him a lot
So I kind of knew him by proxy and Tito Ortiz as a dude as like a just a dude outside of that whole world
Totally cool until a good to go. Yeah, you know totally cool. Hey bisming's the same way like this being kind of a heal
I've met bisming. I trained with bisming. Bisming's totally good dude. You know changed hard hard work great work ethic
Good dude. I'm not saying again. I don't want to make it sound like I know these guys
And I'm all bros with them because I'm not but I've trained with them. I've been on the map with them. You know like I know
I can understand their character outside of the character that they play on TV and
The character that they have and maybe that's why for me when I look at Connor and I see all this stuff
I look at it and I think yeah, you know what behind that
It's gonna be another guy that's a hard worker that wants to win and take care of his family like
Okay, and he's got he's doing some stuff and he's talking about red panties and you know
He just that's what he's doing because then I look at it the same way I see a guy like bisming a guy like T or T's
Who are behind that
That front that they put up?
They're just they're just hardworking guys. I like to fight. Yeah, but I don't see Connor as a bad guy as the heal though
Connor's a good guy. He's like
He's anti opponent like heal. He'll really kind of he'll talk bad about his opponent not necessarily bad like
necessarily bad, but you know he'll talk himself up over his opponent kind of thing
But he's not like like bisming will actively just like chelsoon and just like a T or T they'll actively play the bad guy
Just a little bit but to the point where they will be categorized is that oh
Yeah, people will think about the thing about the stuff that chelsoon and set was saying about Anderson Silva
Oh, yeah, you just yeah, that was crazy and chelsoons a good example
Even though chelsoon and you can tell Brad that guys like every time I did stuff with chelsoon
video watch right and put like full on accommodating like come like overly polite person in ways that he doesn't have to do that
You don't have to do this polite stuff. So he's an he's one of those guys, but I could tell like okay
This is the show and I get it and actually I dig it
Like bisming I was genuinely surprised how nice of it
I did a video with bisming if you want to look at the very funny video too spy the way
Which one did you do with bisming? It's not to live around just show I forget what episode but we
Oh yeah, we did a lot of snatch yeah
He was he played the main guy
Yeah, yeah, smash the movie right. What are you?
You didn't call it snatch what you call it snatchy snatchy
It's good. He does a really good job. So it's it's Michael his bisming kit Dale
Is Tommy and then Hennato is let me ask you this for Kenny Florian
Can you Florian when you did the heat?
He's he's yeah that he's got some chops
Very much straight up acting chops. Yes, Kenny Florian shout out. Yes. Yeah straight up acting chops
So Kenny Florian not to go too deep into that but kids so
Look on top of that Kenny Florian is super nice too. Yeah, and nice where he got tested with with us with me
On how nice he could be as far as tolerant so we go up there right
This one you can't let you the whole thing to remove the whole thing two cameras right we get and so you know one angle at him
One angle at Hennato
The angle on him the camera just didn't work something with the SD card or whatever this and we've totally had to like get access to the restaurant after hours and like all this stuff
Schedule with Kenny not to mention who is like you know this is like after he crossed over into straight-up mainstream
You can't just get Kenny Florian off of you know he had chosen like he's kind of a high level guy at this time and
And I get home like we're you know we're adding in and I'm like we got our there's no choice we got to reshoot this thing and then
Like man and Kenny Florian yeah like whatever he's like cool. Let's go go like reshave. Yeah. Go to you
We're not Dean and I were doing the trials for ADCC in 2002 for the 2003 ADCC
Ken flow came out and he was one of the competitors and it's same thing like we didn't really know him that well
But you know we were all kind of like a back belt. She's not all that stuff
So actually I wasn't a back belt at that time. I was a brown belt
But we you know everyone was just like super cool. Yeah, they Dean was a brown belt. What am I talking about? I was a purple belt
Dang
all right so
Where this whole thing goes from and this is interesting that that you brought this up
This is the another thing I wanted to talk about which is
This idea of a tattoo detachment which talk about all the time
And I've seen like another little reveal
On detachment maybe another angle. Okay, so picture this black belt versus a white belt
Your training jiu-jitsu
The white belt is like grabbing your sleeve
Or grabbing your belt or grabbing like doing something
Whatever he's doing
Doesn't matter and it will not affect the outcome at all
And I see and so what should you do as a black belt as a as a better grapple? What are you gonna do and so when's doing something that doesn't matter
What do you do you just kind of ignore it? It's like okay, that's not gonna affect the outcome. I'm not gonna worry about it
As leaders I see people getting caught up all the times in little things that will not affect the outcome unless they let it
So I see
Some white belt blow them in the chain of commands going all crazy grabbing their sleeve and this
Leader on the top like it gets concerned about it and puts time and effort into something that doesn't matter
Whether it's a little personality rub a little ego uprising
It's like should we do it this way or should we do it that way doesn't matter that's a little sleeve grab it doesn't matter
And I see people getting caught up on things that don't matter all the time and what I've realized is it's something that I figured out
A long time ago. I'm no win, but a long time ago. I figured out you know what that thing doesn't matter
I'm not gonna worry about it that thing doesn't matter. I'm not gonna worry about it. That thing doesn't matter. That thing doesn't matter
I'm not gonna worry about it that thing matters. I'm gonna focus on that thing and that makes
That makes a big a big big big big difference. It's it's leadership capital because if I'm investing my leadership capital
And you're getting your hand off my sleeve or trying to do it my way instead of your way or trying to keep your ego and check
If that's what I'm investing my leadership capital is I have nothing left to invest in the thing that's actually matters
Just like if you're a black belt and someone guys grabbing your sleeve and you focus on pulling that and off your whole time
You're gonna waste energy and maybe you can give up position because you're cuz you're focused on something that did not
matter
so
It is important to realize and to learn to differentiate between things that don't matter and things that do matter
And in order to tell the difference between those two things you have to be able to
detach
and
Step back and obviously this is the same thing not just with your jitsu not just with leadership
Not just with combat because it's the same thing in combat you're gonna have
Things that don't things are happening on the battlefield that don't matter
little hey guys moving here instead of there that doesn't matter. Oh this guy's moving there so it doesn't matter
The enemies doing this okay doesn't matter. Oh wait the enemy did that thing that matters or one of my guys did this thing that matters
So how do you learn to discriminate between the two?
If you have to be able to detach from it. That's what you have to do you have to be able to detach and
If you if you don't
Learn to detach you're gonna constantly get tripped up on things that don't really matter and I'll tell you the more
The better you get the less things matter
The better you get the last things matter
and
The better you get the more the more important things matter
So you end up just wasting no energy on things that don't matter and
Focusing all your energy on things that actually matter and this is the difference man
This is how you went into jitsu. This is how you win as a leader. This is how you win in combat
And this is truly how you win in life think about all the thing you don't what you used to talk about a lot
You haven't done it in a while you just talk about distractions
How things can distract you that's totally true. That's what I'm talking about the things that distract you from what actually matters
so you have to
You have to figure out how to detach from those things. I was doing some reading as is
Per norm shows a guy named Keith Douglas
He was a British soldier World War II
He's kind of a bad ask he was stuck in a administrative position in October of
1942 during the second battle of
L. Alameen and so he's stuck in this administrative position
So he's when A wall went to the front line enjoying the fight and kind of after it and one of the things that he wrote
He said to be sentimental or emotional now is dangerous to oneself and to others
So
What is he talking about? You can't get emotional
You can't get sentimental. You can't get caught up in things that don't matter
After his return from Africa this guy Keith Douglas
He wrote a book about his experience. Here's a little excerpt. You can kind of
Think about what this guy has been through that taught him these lessons. Here we go
As I came up to them I recognized one of them as a Robin the observation officer who's aid
I had been asking for earlier in the day I
Recognized his fleece lines fleece lines swayed waste coat and polished brass shoulder titles and then his face
strained and tired with pain
His left foot was smashed to a pulp
Mingled with the remainder of a boot
But as I spoke to Robin saying have you got a turnic at Robin?
He answered apologetically. I'm afraid I haven't Keith
I looked at the second man
Only his clothes distinguished him as a human being
His face had gone
In place of it was a huge yellow vegetable
The eyes blinked in it without lashes
Indigrotesc huge mouth dribbled and moaned like a child exhausted with crying
So there's an example
of a horrible
Situation that you have to learn to detach and you have to be able to focus on things that actually matter because
As Keith Douglas said to be sentimental or emotional now is dangerous to oneself and to others
Now as I was digging into a little bit of Keith Douglas and I will we'll get to Keith Douglas fully on the podcast
But he added to that line
He added another line
That I want to hit as well to be sentimental or emotional now is dangerous to on self and to others and he continues
To trust anyone or to admit any hope of a better world. It's criminally foolish
As foolish as it is to stop working for it
So
I you know that's a little tangent that's a tangent but
It's powerful and like I said we'll get to Keith Douglas's book and
That book got published after the war
And unfortunately Keith Douglas never saw that book get published because he was killed by enemy mortar fire on June 9th
Just a few days
Into the DDA invasion of Normandy which he took part in
But again luckily you left us a lesson which is to control your emotions and I think as a
As a person and it as an individual
If you can start trying to discriminate between things that matter and things that don't matter
And the way that you do that is by detaching from everything
And
Then you can pay attention and you can assess logically not emotionally what's important and what's not and you focus on the things that matter and you're gonna make your entire life
A lot easier to great lesson from Keith Douglas and
I think that's all
I've got for today. I will say that speaking of lessons
I've got a little lesson to pass on
You know book in a forthcoming book
It's called Mikey in the Dragons
And
If you didn't hear about the book yet
Mikey in the Dragons is about a young kid that's scared of everything and that makes his life
Pretty hard pretty miserable
Because he's scared of everything one day he finds a book and
And I
He scared everything he finds this book and and there's a book within the book in the story
And we'll go into the book within the book right here real quick
And then one day
Mikey noticed a book
He opened it up and took a quick look
He did that pictures of dragons with things like a snake and all kinds of scary things that made Mikey shake
But in the pictures there was a boy too
Who didn't look scared but like he knew what to do
And even though Mikey was scared indeed he decided that he would give the book a read
He opened the first page which he eagerly read and
This is what the dragon book said
There once was a kingdom long ago and far away on the kingdom and suffered a horrible day
Their protector and leader their king he had died and when they found out the whole village cried
When the king was alive he was a powerful force
Now they took the dead king away by carriage and horse
They knew they would miss him and that made them sad
But there was something else that made them feel bad the king had always been so strong and brave and
Protected the kingdom from the dragon cave
The dragon cave was just over the hill and filled with scary dragons that were ready to kill
And the story
Continues from there
And explains that no one in the village in the kingdom would stand up to the dragons
Except the young prince who is only seven years old
And he's nervous and he's scared
He's no if he can handle it
But he kind of realizes he's gonna have to step up so he goes to his father's war chest
I'm so happy that I could put the word war chest in a book yeah and
He finds the shield and he finds the sword of his dad and they're both super heavy
But then he also finds a little note
A little note from his father the king that explains how to overcome the dragons
So
Even though the book is aimed at kids
I think we all know that we all have dragons to fight
And like I said on the last podcast really wanted to get this book into the hands of kids and really into the hands of everyone
But again
My publisher told me
That there was no scenario where this book gets published by November so what did I do
I started my own publishing company and the book will be out in November
So yeah, it's it's actually getting printed at this time and
In order to pull this off in order to actually know how many books I need to print
I think it already looks like I need to print more books because you all ordered a lot of them already so thank you
Preorder so that I know what to print
So I can print enough of the sacred first edition first it
If you want you and your kids and your family to know how to crush their dragons
Appreciate it
Gonna need that that's what's gonna happen. We're gonna go forward together. Slay dragons in this case. Who's the dragon?
Well, you know big publishing companies sometimes
Anyways, we all have our dragons to fight and
When we fight our dragons well, I don't know maybe sometimes we could use some help
Echo sometimes you only know any way that we could
Maybe get some help fighting our dragons. Yeah, so the dragons the dragons
Our dragons sure are dragon. Yeah, so I'll tell you this this what this might help this will help actually if you realize to the full extent
That capability capability and knowledge
That well be fight the dragons
Those two things are imperative in fighting dragons. Yeah, so
We're staying on the path that's the capability part them actually the path is both
Yeah, the path covers all yeah capability knowledge always trying to improve so every step forward on the path
Is a step forward in capability knowledge check
As opposed to the slippery slope
Which is step backwards
And capability and knowledge. I be careful on that one. Yes, so what it will capability right this preparation execution results
Right just made that up right now literally so it could be flawed, but whatever sounds good to me
So so staying on the path what start with you, too, of course good place
We start about you. Yeah, good universal kind of overarching yeah
How many people hit you up a day that just started you jitsu?
a lot and what I started doing trying to do is
Everyone that's that's indicating they just started jitsu first day jitsu second day jitsu just got my kid into
Just I just retweet it
And be like boom you're you know in the game just letting people know hey game look okay. Yep. Here's another person all different type of scenario
Toot by the way different types. Here's the huge one here's old 12 years old 29 years old bad back
You know Kurt elbow
I'm a surgeon. I'm a firefighter. I'm a police officer. I'm a CEO
It doesn't matter good job in the game. Yeah, all good and and
Every once in a while see this. Yes got my kids into jitsu. You know one of my I wish was maybe a little bit more into it, you know
Like what should I do or so or whatever maybe not even that they just said
Like you jump in there
You know, so it's like it's because a lot of times like oh yeah, this is perfect for my kid
Oh, yeah, or my kid wants to jump in if yeah, if you're if you're taking your kids to jitsu
And you're not participating we got an issue. Yeah, let's it let's at the very least just consider that
Just consider it think no, I'm saying you're saying jump in yeah, yeah get it
So I had a cool guy come into the gym here and was in please officer and he had his kids
All fired up, you know all the kids are into it. They're so fired up. That's awesome. I was like oh
You know what cost are you going to these like wow? I can't trip them immediately level seven guilt trip
I was like bro are you kidding me? Come on get on the mat. So he's in the game now. Yeah, so and and that's not like that
Rare of a story because and even just how our gym is laid out where you know the kids guys is going on
Hey, just just look right behind you right now right behind you
So you can just let let your kids go. I know you don't watch the kids you want to see what up
You want to see what's going on. Don't worry about that. They're gonna be fat um, you know
They got it they got it they got it. Yeah, I think it's on lock yeah unlock even good way
By the way, yeah and just turn around. It's just jumping down right there
You're gonna have as much fun as your kid by the way. It's not more but plus you're gonna have something in common with your kid
Oh yeah, and you're and I'll tell you what if you don't your kid's gonna be beating you is this is gonna be beating you up
That's gonna suck hey the kids grow up my kids 15 my boy is 15
Yeah, you better watch out. Yeah, and we want I think there's a secret part of us if not overt part of us that wants our
Kid one day to like question you stand up to you. Maybe come front you about some stuff some questions
They have about you and your whole thing. Yeah, you know I got to ask that the other day is like no
Didn't it really make you mad because the story and dichotomy leadership about the patches right the patches
Yeah patches on oh yeah. I told you guys no patches and
Late and Seth made patches anyways and
Brought him in this guy's like what did it want you like offended and want you mad and I was like no
Actually, I was kind of thinking of myself well cool these guys have that little rebellious streak that they need as leaders to tell the man
You know to stick to the man. Yeah, that's fine with me at it. Yeah, yeah
It wasn't offensive they weren't doing something that's gonna get someone hurt or killed
They were they were just being little rebels. Yeah, just fine. So do I want to see that with my kids?
Yes, I want to see a little bit
Sometimes I need to keep that in food
Yeah, big time so if you're not doing you do you just and your kids are
So she fits a boy well, no girl boy whatever yeah that the probability of them standing up to you
Maybe a little early than you expected is very high that's what I think that's my hypothesis
That's a good thing not a bad thing
Yeah, it will be a bad thing if you can't do anything about it because you know
Pretend it kids get good
Yeah, yeah, it's funny because you get these kids right who really get into it
Then they grow up into a dot so the belt system is kind of
It's like it's like planting a seed before the the plant goes above ground is a lot that goes on underground
Right, so some you know some plants you know the bamboo the anyway there's a
What he called is?
I don't know either way there's an old school story about the bamboo
It takes like a bunch of years when you plant it
But once it breaks ground it takes it shoots up super fast right that's how kids are with Gitu
So you put them in a map of just you but that's an old common story they say that's a metaphor anyway
So you put the kid in Gitu they really like it and kids they get the belts though
What are their belts white and then you have these intermediary white
Right, yellow the main ones are yellow white yellow orange green gray is become a main one now to gray
Become legit okay, so you get up to green belt that's essentially the purple slash brown belt of kids the green belt
Interesting and then you can't get a blue belt until 60 traditionally traditionally tradition
So once you reach blue belt you're essentially a black belt for your body
That's it your body is like it right in the puberty or whatever here's the thing with nothing
I don't completely agree with you. Okay, so yeah, I dig it. I hear what you're saying
But to your point usually 10 years to become a black belt around if you're training hard and all that
And what you're saying is a kid could start at five and now 16 gets his blue belt
He's been training for 11 years so to your point his skill level could be very very high
Yeah, so that's a yeah, you're right and me
I got into the story so I said black belt maybe your response will either way when he hits blue belt
That's not a normal. I don't know. Oh, no that is a kick ass
Blue belt to kill us so he's gonna go oh, yeah, oh, yeah, yeah my first time fighting his blue belt
I'm 17 years old and he's beating everyone super easy to by the way and these are adults
25 to six years old and he's just beating them so he gets his purple belt right right away
Unless he's in one of these situations where they actually make you be blue belt for two years
You know sometimes there's that like I think I'd be JJ F does that sometimes competing was anyway
Anyway, anyway when they when they reach ground meaning adult hood when they reach above ground like the bamboo
They just shoot because all their fundamentals are like
Diled like so they have they've developed like a whole
proprioception yeah and
Body understanding and it's proprioception not just of their own body, but if they're opponents body as well like they know where
You're their opponents gonna be yeah, which is legit
Yeah, so be on the path of jiu-jitsu
Did you get the overall concept that we're getting that yeah, and yes very jiu-jitsu heavy I think today
But you know I haven't really been training that much oh either way oh yeah
Jumping the path you're gonna need a geek an arascart
Trump people ask where do we start what do I go what do we go to get a geek on like origin main dot com boom
Gizo plenty pick with it whichever one is right for you. They are all made in America by the way
Which you know it seems like common knowledge about let's say this is your first introduction to origin main dot
Boom now you know
Get a geek get a rash guard jump on the path you just to just jump in yeah
Usually the first class is freed by the way most places. Yeah, and a lot of people ask
Hey, I need advice going to my first class just go keep an open mind have fun relax
Yeah, do all those things yeah a big one is like
Keep your ears like open, you know, don't don't be that guy like you always say this word don't be the guy
Be like what if I just do this you know kind of they like what it does more if you just go in to solicitor
Just listen and I'm hard to annoy I think that might be starting to annoy me a little bit
When people when I'm talking to a big group of people that have never done to you
It's before and someone throws out the like
Why what if you know what if they just grab your arm right here?
It's like well there's 14 other moves that you can do from that which I didn't get to because I'm trying to teach you this fundamental thing over here
That you don't understand because you're an idiot
And so yeah, and that's yeah, I would say that just keep that in mind. That's the advice if you know
Yeah, what's the good to keep your ears open keep I don't want to discourage people from asking questions
But let's just let's just think about how we ask the questions right don't ask it as a challenge to the
Canon of just you knowledge which is the way some people ask it all you have to do is this like no
Actually if you say like hey sometimes he's doing this and I don't know what to do yet
Yeah, I'm gonna tell you and I won't be annoyed at all if you tell me if you say it to me like you just
Uncovered the secret key of jitzu
I'm gonna be slightly annoyed you won't know it, but I'll just be like oh, yeah, well here you go
Here's what you do. Yeah, so actually you mentioned that key to defeating jitzu you mentioned it
What do you times run away oh yeah, that's it 100% nobody can submit me if I'm running unless it passes in me true running is a good self defense
Hey, also at origin. We got we got some supplements at origin and we got joint warfare
Which will help you train every day we got?
Criloil which will also help you train every day and those kind of compliment each other
They yeah, very much they very much to compliment what I didn't the whole mental
Like curcumin
And
Criloil this big like massage for your brain and getting everything so anyways
So try those those we get great feedback on those all the time also got the discipline which is for
pre-mission
Nutrition when you need to do something both cognitive and physical we got your back on this one
Three scoops. We've determined is kind of the limit in my opinion. Yeah, I think it's kind of limit
Currently out there. Have you ever taken like the old school pre-work out?
Yes before jitzu oh no no, I'll take this stuff before jitzu. I've done that before and it's horrible
It's like the wrong wrong move. I think if you because your your hards beating your all amp up
It's just not good. You can't think straight. You know
Discipline is not like that at all three scoops. We'll get you right in the zone where you want to be and
But I think I haven't tried four scoops because I just think it would be crazy
But I think four scoops would start to lean towards
Too much yeah, and that that's the case with most things right where it's like oh, yeah
Two scoops is better than one and it's true three scoops even better than two dang that's true
Two scoops and then that's kind of it. Yeah, you can do that. It's mostly that caught me. Yeah, find the balance
Mook we got mook
Mook is
Mook
Protein mook mook has protein in it. We have multiple flavors now
We have mint chocolate. We have peanut butter chocolate. We have vanilla gorilla. We have the darkness
Just straight chocolate which is surprising and good by the way. Why is that surprise are you surprised still right now?
Well, yeah, I am not surprised at all in your mouth. Well, put it this way
I'm not surprised in the capability that it took to make it taste good
I'm not saying that that was the hardest one to make it took us a long time
We went through iteration it so so if it's surprised you I guess I take that back
Yeah, it is surprising how good it is because it's good. Yeah, it's really good because it's like easy when you think about it
You're like okay chocolate mint. Mm-hmm. Okay good. I mean as far as making that taste good
I'm not gonna be that impressed because come on. It's mint chocolate. It's facing it's good
Mint or chocolate peanut butter same deal. Yeah, in fact. Isn't it weird though as as good as those flavors are
How come it's so how come it's been until now that someone gonna actually make them taste the way they're supposed to taste
I should be more impressed than you are. Yeah, you know now that you break it down like that sure
I think you're actually right. I didn't think of that. I just considered sheer ass. Oh, obviously
It's put peanut butter in anything in my opinion, Brad. It's gonna make it taste good
But if you're gonna try to hit me with the straight chocolate on something with protein that's good for you
That low sugar. I'm like yeah, okay. I'll give it a chance
I'll give it a one the gram
Yeah, I was we went out. I wanted to eat with my fam sure tell you and
We were talking about we were just talking about food
And my daughter was like well, somehow she's like you you just eat like one meal and then you just have like nuts and
Molk
Because because I do I eat nuts. I get the big giant
One of the called cans of
Next no, I make some of the container and I have some yeah contain taking container. Yeah, and I have just have like handful nuts
I'll put some of them in a bowl and then I'm just doing that and moke and that's when you can't use the peanut buttermilk in my opinion
Too much not to much nuts. You know get it. I don't agree but hey, I dig it man. Oh, you don't agree that you can do too much peanut butter
No, so yeah, that hey
You know I've that one of those you know those huge things of peanut butter the biggest one
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's from the big box store
Get a stock file
Yeah, moke is good protein on the one not tell you what now we just came out with
Warrior kid moke and
Did the right thing and and truly this is
Awesome and I'll tell you why it's awesome because kids need good food kids need healthy food and they're not gonna
Eat healthy food if it tastes like junk and
So we made warrior kid moke there's a little less protein in it. There's only a little less only 11 grams
There's 11 grams of protein sure for for the kids
There's probiotics there's vitamins. There's one gram of sugar, which is not even sugar
It's something else whatever is one gram of sugar in there and
It tastes awesome strawberry and chocolate the chocolate's delicious
The strawberry is kind of next level
The strawberry is so good it tastes like someone took the ultra high-end ice cream and made you a milkshake with it strawberry style
That's what it tastes like your kids are gonna love it and you're gonna love it. That's the problem
I mean the problem is it's not a problem the reality is I've had strawberry moke warrior kid strawberry moke like for dessert
Three meals in a row right now the last three meals. I had strawberry moke every time
Why is that taste good?
It's good. It's awesome for you. This is a revolution. I'm not gonna throw this out there like just throw this right there
There's a revolutionary thing, but can you imagine I think this is the first product in the history of the world that I can personally think of you
Tell me if you can think of something else. Okay. This is the first product that I can think of in the world
That the kids are gonna want to have it as much as the parents are gonna want them to have it
I don't know any other thing like that
Yeah, what other thing is like that the kids want to have it as bad as the parents because like the kids want ice cream
They want it bad the kids the parents don't want to grab it. Yeah, right the parents want the kids to have
The vitamin pill the kids don't want to have it. This is a universal want yeah, it's delicious
And it's awesome for the kids. So I'm super stoked because it's cool when kids want to be on the warrior kid path
But they don't have good food easily accessible
This is gonna replace all the little chocolatey sugary drinks that
Parents have been forced to feed their young children and poison them no more those days are over
So get on the maltrain
I get your warrior kids on the maltrain as well. Yeah, the that strawberry one is funny because I don't
When I go to wherever to get a milkshake. I don't get this strawberry no no no neither would I but
I'm mixed up the string you know like got some everyone's excited this been some hype
And you know so I'm like all right, we'll see what up meet my son whatever
He's too by the way. Oh, so yeah, I mix it up whatever and you know, I taste it
I think you know something will bring you right back
Oh, you're a kid this strawberry whatever
Good brother. I think that's the last time I really got into a strawberry something
Yeah, like a little strawberry right back then right back and then there's the ready-made strawberry milk
That used to get when you were a kid and let's face it that that with that is a whole
Memory section in your brain that will remember that
It's looking for sometimes you go into a settle 11 you see one of those you're like
And now that I am straight up milk same the strawberry milk right there
Yeah, the same thing it's it's it's probably tastes better because it's got a little bit
It's a little bit thicker. You know, it's got a little bit more a bit milkshake. Yeah
We're gonna have to come up with strawberry a mocha adult to with a little bit more protein just for GP because it's good
But in the meantime get that warrior kid strawberry bring you right and the warrior kid chocolate's good too
It's awesome. Well, I prefer the chocolate. I'm just saying the strawberry
Prochristing it was good. I like it obviously my son my son drank most of it, but you know, he's too. He's too. Yes, sir
How's this? What's his bicep workouts looking like right solid?
Actually, I have a video of him dead lifting one of the kettle bells the audience. Yeah, too good for me too kids have
Surprising good for them. Yeah, it's up. They get broken down over time by society
Got a fight against it. All right. Let's roll. No, that's what I'm a good. Oh, so what where you could monkey already said that and that's that
We have our own store, so that's something yeah if you want to represent you want to get it shirt
you want to get a hoodie you want to get a
Hat a more rash guards on there more more specific direct messages on the rough rash guards for staying on the path
Go to jockelstore.com also you can get t-shirts because not everyone wears rash guards all the time like John Donner
Yes, I'm down. We're gonna send John Donner or some some of these things. Yeah, but yeah, that's where it is
Jockelstore.com. Good shirts on there new shirts on there by the way
Interesting um shoot. I've been meeting to sort of send everybody an email kind of let it
I'm gonna cuz there's a few of them. Oh, I'll do that check do that also got hats
For those of you that like flex fit hats they're available for those of you that like truckers hats
They're also available and
hoodies legit hoodies legit
Heavy heavy and do we also do we have any Hawaiian on there left no Hawaiian
You know, hey, yeah, no as of right now no okay
Maybe in the summer will make the Hawaiian one again. Yeah, maybe the winner for the actual white people. Oh, yeah, true
Gotta get it home. So that's good. Oh, yeah, some women stuff on there too by the way
some new some more women stuff for the female troopers. Yes
specific in the house
Remember subscribe to this podcast I tunes Google play a stature
Leave reviews so I can read them so echo can read them, but mostly so I can read them
I want the feedback yeah that goes over there cruising well I get addicted to reading those
Yeah, I know when they're funny they're when they're interesting, but usually they're interesting ones by interesting
I mean funny
Yeah, yeah
And also don't forget about the warrior kid podcast
um
Nothing but great feedback on the warrior kid podcast people listening to it over and over and over again
Partially because they love it partially because I haven't put out enough episodes
So we got a little intense time period books coming out and all that, but we're kind of getting through that
So I'll be able to get back on the path of
Making the warrior kid podcast matter of fact I'm almost done with a story from Uncle Jake good story from Uncle Jake a real big lesson learned
That'll be on the warrior kid podcast so subscribe to that one as well and don't forget about that warrior kid's good soap
From Irish Oaks ranch.com. We got young aiden the warrior kid running his own business age 13
Making money making product made in America made with goat milk
Yeah
What else do you need to know other than get some soap and stay clean?
Also get the YouTube YouTube videos now we are stepping up our game
I know we've been talking about this for a long time some of us just been the form of harassment
And he harassing echo, but we actually are making preparations training is underway
People are coming on board things are happening. We're moving in the right direction
Yeah, and so YouTube subscribe to YouTube. We're gonna start
We're gonna use that platform even more. Yeah, get it out there. Yes utilizing
Spreading good messages to keep people on the path sometimes to get people on the path
That's that's a good thing psychological warfare speaking the path little help staying on the path
These are little tracks about
Overcoming your own personal individual weaknesses at one time or another. Yes, so you get that album and you press play in certain scenarios
We're working on assembling psychological warfare to
Yeah, probably gonna be called all your excuses or lies
Good and that one will come out before Christmas. We'll get it to you before Christmas. Yeah, yeah
We should be able to get to you before Christmas
Yeah in time for the New Year's resolutions. Yes, they develop. Yeah, they develop you know your anti-New Year's resolution
I am from what I understand. Yeah, not just another day to me
No, sure
Yeah, yeah, if I was gonna make a resolution you know when I'd start it right now
Why would I wait today? Yeah, no now not even today now
Later today not after dinner. No get it now. All right well
It can still technically be a year's resolution because you could just be like boom like from now on for the next year
I get that definitely fit either way
I did what you're saying and
Cool man do it. Speaking of staying on the path on it.com slash y'all actually there just on it to stay on it on it when he when they named it on the path
That's what they had it in reference to I know that 100% for a fact
Get your
Fitness stuff
That's how you stand the path you bring the gym to your house. You said this you said this earlier
I still have a 24-fitness membership by the way
Yeah, and I go to turn for our fitness everyone's in a while
But but having this stuff at home will keep you on the path like hardcore. Yeah, yeah
So get your kettle bells when you do kettle bells when you do kettle bells when you do kettle bells
You do kettle bells. Yes. I do kettle bells everyone that I know that's on the path does kettle bells
I'm not saying if you don't do kettle bells you're not on the path. I'm not saying that. I'm saying if you're on the path and you don't do kettle bells
Consider getting kettle bells for your house and when you do go to on it.com to get them
Because they're cool in my opinion. That's the only one that I got go there. There's a lot of cool stuff on there some clothes on there too if you want
A lot of information as well on it dot com slash jocco by the way
It's a good spot also
Jocco weight T speaking of bringing the gym to your house
You better bring 8000 pounds
Anyway, if you're doing in jocco weight, yes, it is proven people ask me is that for real 8000 pounds a yeah
100% 100% one ton is
2,000 pounds. Yeah, this is four tons for you will be able to deadlift and you only have to drink one two by the way
I drink the cans you yeah, yeah, and sometimes people say why I could only deadlift you know
485 and I'm like drink more tea. Yeah, I remember I used to be like that too. I dig it
But yeah, hey, it even got Jordan B Peterson. Yeah, office boy. He was plateaued at 7000 pounds god knows how long he was stuck there that week level
I don't know any god right up 8000 pounds
Jocco is there white tea. You know what's what's funny about not what's funny? What's interesting first episode of this podcast. Oh, yeah, we talk about
Pumgranate chai. Yeah, you say pomegranate chai. I don't know whatever tea that you're into because we're because that was the first one
You made this weird kind of easing into the podcast starting which wasn't really what I had in mind
Yeah, you know I had more mind like hey, okay
We press record we start right more if you had a you know cruising over here
It was kind of yeah, well the podcast has begun now, but as a result a different mindset as a result
There's that added layer for the people that did listen to that first few seconds of that first first episode
You say pomegranate chai. You say no pomegranate white tea. Yeah
And then look at your flucke tune down you won look at you now. Yeah, meet your own pomegranate white
He took people with us me all the time what kind of tea and I wouldn't really be able to tell him because I try would try different ones
No one was perfect. So I just wanted to make the perfect one
Mean your own but yeah, that's how you do you go we have it on our website
By the way, jockels.org.com. We offer it there, but you can get it anywhere. Yeah, yeah Amazon too
Amazon has this stuff Amazon Prime for the cans save yourself a little shipping
You're on Amazon Prime David then you got that also on Amazon and everywhere you can buy books
We got some we got some books. I got way the warrior kid and Mark's mission those are part of a series and those will
Those are a good books for your children as a parent. They want how many I don't know how many people have told me this these books have made parenting easier for them
Because now they just look at their kids say I would you think this is a one of warrior kid would do
You think a warrior kid would eat that donut right now?
I don't think so you think that warrior kid would leave with it would would leave their room all dirty
I don't think so the kids I can oh no way I got parents to say their kids say don't know warrior kid won't do that
Like when they read warrior kid their voice goes from like hey dad. What do you think we're gonna do to like hey dad?
I don't think we should do that sounds like weakness to me. Yeah case in point today
So my daughter. She's sensitive. I wouldn't say things get a lot of things skin sensitive whatever
So like so if you say something mean to her as like a if another kid says something mean that's something there
You know super nice to everybody so a
kid called her a liar who but apparently that's this kid's thing. He just calls people liar like I got a good reaction out of it some point
Some you know you got a reaction at some point. Yeah, at some point somebody acted all crazies like oh, okay
Now I know how to make people really now. I know how to get a reaction. Yeah, so
She doesn't like that you know because she lying was kind of the thing my dad always kind of we would get spanking for lying
Yeah, that's pretty much it that's a big violation of all things so
You know, so as a result not to say I spank her for lying. I'm not saying that but she doesn't like the whole lying thing or she gets a cute
You know how I would like she'll do something. I'll be like hey, did you brush your T she'll be like it?
I don't be like and then you go smell that breath
It should be like oh my god she'll get devastated if I think she's lying
I was like she's gonna check it for a toothbrushes wet or dry
See I get that go deep. I just you want lied to me. We're going to the ball
But see what you did though, but see what you do though like if I go and investigate that indicates to her
She's like lack of trust. Yeah, like you think I'm lying and she gets really sad so anyway
What I'm saying is she sensitive to that kind of stuff? I think I'm manipulating you
That's a very possible too, but it seems to be where if they're good. Yeah, I've got to watch him
Yes, you do anyway, so at school she was like hey, that's the boy he called he calls me liar and
Another day he called her a liar every day like that's his name like your liar every day. Oh, so
One of my things I'd go to deep into and I tell her hey you're a nice person
So you'd be nice to people whether they're mean to you or not
So you're just a nice person you don't like become a mean person because they'd be mean
She goes well, I really don't like to be called a liar
I was like would you rather be called a liar or plate face and then she started laughing
Because she remembers that's how he gets over it. He laughs at himself because of self-plate face
You know Nathan he's over there. He's all kind of laughing confused. I call it that's funny
And they laugh about it and they slowly become friends
So she was like boom away last time that that was today. And I'm not even joking. That was a good one. I dropped it off. Awesome
So that's way of working kid and marks mission
We also got this funny goes freedom field manual
This is the book that what's great about this one people tell me I read two pages every day
I read three pages every day. I wake up in the morning and read one page
Get yourself on the path get your mind right as my boy Matthews to say
Up in your sanity he hit me up on Twitter by the way. I'm gonna track him down and
So that's this one goes freedom field manual Christmas time good gift for someone you want to put someone on the path cool
Get him that book. Don't even say anything. Don't even don't even introduce it just give him that book
I just let it let it ride because when you open it up you're gonna open it you have to open it up because it looks
It's not normal. You know you open it up. You see that's not normal either. It's not just a bunch of like a black
Print on a white page. No, no, it's different. Yeah, so you start flipping through it then you start saying wait a second
This makes sense to
I do the next thing you know you wake up and it's not
742 it's 448
So that's the discipline goes freedom field manual after that well not after that
But the first book extreme ownership this is about combat leadership and
You got the dichotomy a leadership which just came out dichotomy leadership by the way
By the way extreme ownership number five right now on
The Wall Street Journal business books list
The number one book on that list is dichotomy leadership
So thanks to everyone for getting those books and
Much appreciate that support. I already talked about Mikey in the dragons. It's coming out. It's coming out on jockel publishing
so if you want it
Order it right now. It's just up on Amazon. So go to Amazon go to go to jockel podcast
You can click through and
Get Mikey in the dragon some people have a little trouble finding it. It's there
Get it also
Ashland front. This is our leadership consultancy
We solve problems through leadership. It's me, Lave Babin, JP to know Dave Burke Flynn, Cochran Mike's really
And also Mike Bomma
Don't call a speaking agency
We don't like that
Just email us along front
Info national on front dot com or check out our website. Muster San Francisco sold out
The only good news I have for you is that there will be more musters pay attention or put the word out through the social media or whatever
Also, yeah, full-for-watch
This is connecting special operations veterans and leaders and
Combat aviation veterans and leaders to companies that need experienced proven leaders that understand the principles of
Extreme ownership
Go to efo-watch to get in that game
And if you want to keep cruising with us
You can find us on the intro webs on Twitter on Instagram and on Facebook
Keepo that goes at echo Charles and I am at jockel willing and thanks to everyone out there in uniform
Thanks for your sacrifice and your vigilance
here at home and abroad as well
We know what you do every day and we thank you for it
And to everyone else remember the words of Keith Douglas to trust anyone or admit any hope of a better world is
Cremantly foolish as
Foolish as it is to stop working for it
Keep working for it do your part every day
To become stronger faster smarter better
To try and make the world a little bit better keep working for it and keep getting after it
And until next time this is echo and jockel out